Add rVFC article (#3399)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/requestvideoframecallback-rvfc/index.md

---
title: |

>   The requestVideoFrameCallback (rVFC) API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `requestVideoFrameCallback()` method
```

Reviewer: Two reasons:
* Abbreviation: Don't invent abbreviations for methods, at least not in formal documents.
* API: The best practice is "use definite, specific, concrete language". In this context, 'method' is more specific than 'API'.

subhead: |
  Perform efficient per-video-frame operations on video.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2020-06-29
updated: 2020-06-29
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Film roll.
description: |

>   The requestVideoFrameCallback method allows web authors to register a callback,
>   which runs in the rendering steps when a new video frame is sent to the compositor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The requestVideoFrameCallback() method allows web authors to register a callback
  that runs in the rendering steps when a new video frame is sent to the compositor.
```

tags:
  - blog
  - media
  - capabilities
---
There's a new Web API on the block, defined in the

> [HTMLVideoElement.requestVideoFrameCallback()](https://wicg.github.io/video-rvfc/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`HTMLVideoElement.requestVideoFrameCallback()`](https://wicg.github.io/video-rvfc/)
```

specification.

> The `requestVideoFrameCallback()` method (rVFC) allows web authors to register a callback,
> which runs in the rendering steps when a new video frame 🎞 is sent to the compositor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `requestVideoFrameCallback()` method allows web authors to register a callback
that runs in the rendering steps when a new video frame is sent to the compositor.
```

This is intended to allow developers to perform efficient per-video-frame operations on video,
such as video processing and painting to a canvas, video analysis,
or synchronization with external audio sources.

> ## Difference to requestAnimationFrame (rAF)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Difference with requestAnimationFrame()
```

Operations like drawing a video frame to a canvas via
[`drawImage()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/drawImage)
made through this API will be synchronized as a best effort

> with the video playing on screen.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence. Can you take another shot at it?

Author: Added that it's about the frame rate.

> with the video playing on screen.

Author: ```suggestion
with the frame rate of the video playing on screen.
```

Different from
[`window.requestAnimationFrame()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window/requestAnimationFrame),
which usually fires about 60 times per second,
`requestVideoFrameCallback()` is bound to the actual video frame rate—with an important
[exception](https://wicg.github.io/video-rvfc/#ref-for-update-the-rendering③:~:text=Note%3A%20The%20effective%20rate%20at%20which,browser%20would%20fire%20callbacks%20at%2060hz.):

> The effective rate at which callbacks are run is the lesser rate between the video's rate
  and the browser's rate.
  This means a 25fps video playing in a browser that paints at 60Hz
  would fire callbacks at 25Hz.

>   A 120fps video in that same 60Hz browser would fire callbacks at 60Hz.

Reviewer: What's this quoted from? It needs a sightation.

Author: Right before, the linked [exception](https://wicg.github.io/video-rvfc/#ref-for-update-the-rendering③:~:text=Note%3A%20The%20effective%20rate%20at%20which,browser%20would%20fire%20callbacks%20at%2060hz.).

Reviewer: What's the reason for quoting this? Can't you just say it in your own words?

Author: It's spec text and makes it visually stand out. It invites people to also have a look at the spec if they want to.

> ## What's in a name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's in a name?
```

> Due to its similarity with `window.requestAnimationFrame()`, the API initially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to its similarity with `window.requestAnimationFrame()`, the method initially
```

was [proposed as `video.requestAnimationFrame()`](https://discourse.wicg.io/t/proposal-video-requestanimationframe/3691),

> but I'm happy the new name
> `requestVideoFrameCallback()` was agreed on
> after a [lengthy discussion](https://github.com/WICG/video-rvfc/issues/44).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but I'm happy with the new name,
`requestVideoFrameCallback()`, which was agreed on
after a [lengthy discussion](https://github.com/WICG/video-rvfc/issues/44).
```

> Yay, [bikeshedding](https://css-tricks.com/what-is-bikeshedding/) for the win 🙌!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yay, [bikeshedding](https://css-tricks.com/what-is-bikeshedding/) for the win!
```

## Browser support and feature detection

> The API is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method is
```

[implemented in Chromium](https://chromestatus.com/feature/6335927192387584)
already, and
[Mozilla folks like it](https://mozilla.github.io/standards-positions/#requestVideoFrameCallback).
For what it's worth, I have also filed a
[WebKit bug](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=211945) asking for it.
Feature detection of the API works like this:

```js
if ('requestVideoFrameCallback' in HTMLVideoElement.prototype) {

>   // The API is supported! 🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // The API is supported! 
```

}
```

> ## Using the rVFC API

Author: ```suggestion
## Using the requestVideoFrameCallback method
```

> If you have ever used the rAF API, you will immediately feel at home with the rFVC API.

Author: ```suggestion
If you have ever used the `requestAnimationFrame()` method, you will immediately feel at home with the `requestVideoFrameCallback()` method.
```

You register an initial callback once, and then re-register whenever the callback fires.

```js
const doSomethingWithTheFrame = (now, metadata) => {
  // Do something with the frame.
  console.log(now, metadata);
  // Re-register the callback to be notified about the next frame.
  video.requestVideoFrameCallback(doSomethingWithTheFrame);
};
// Initially register the callback to be notified about the first frame.
video.requestVideoFrameCallback(doSomethingWithTheFrame);
```

> In the callback, `now` is a [`DOMHighResTimeStamp`](https://www.w3.org/TR/hr-time-2/#dom-domhighrestimestamp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the callback, `now` is a [`DOMHighResTimeStamp`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMHighResTimeStamp)
```

and `metadata` is a [`VideoFrameMetadata`](https://wicg.github.io/video-rvfc/#dictdef-videoframemetadata)
dictionary with the following properties:

- `presentationTime`, of type `DOMHighResTimeStamp`:
  The time at which the user agent submitted the frame for composition.
- `expectedDisplayTime`, of type `DOMHighResTimeStamp`:
  The time at which the user agent expects the frame to be visible.
- `width`, of type `unsigned long`:
  The width of the video frame, in media pixels.
- `height`, of type `unsigned long`:
  The height of the video frame, in media pixels.
- `mediaTime`, of type `double`:
  The media presentation timestamp (PTS) in seconds of the frame presented (e.g., its timestamp on the `video.currentTime` timeline).
- `presentedFrames`, of type `unsigned long`:

>   A count of the number of frames submitted for composition. Allows clients to determine if frames were missed between `VideoFrameRequestCallback`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A count of the number of frames submitted for composition. Allows clients to determine if frames were missed between instances of`VideoFrameRequestCallback`.
```

Reviewer: so that typefaces aren't mixed within the same word.

- `processingDuration`, of type `double`:
  The elapsed duration in seconds from submission of the encoded packet with the same presentation timestamp (PTS) as this frame (e.g., same as the `mediaTime`) to the decoder until the decoded frame was ready for presentation.

> For WebRTC applications, additional properties can appear:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For WebRTC applications, additional properties may appear:
```

- `captureTime`, of type `DOMHighResTimeStamp`:
  For video frames coming from either a local or remote source, this is the time at which the frame was captured by the camera.
  For a remote source, the capture time is estimated using clock synchronization and RTCP sender reports
  to convert RTP timestamps to capture time.
- `receiveTime`, of type `DOMHighResTimeStamp`:
  For video frames coming from a remote source, this is the time the encoded frame was received
  by the platform, i.e., the time at which the last packet belonging to this frame was received over the network.
- `rtpTimestamp`, of type `unsigned long`:
  The RTP timestamp associated with this video frame.

{% Aside %}
  Note that `width` and `height` might differ from `videoWidth` and `videoHeight` in certain cases
  (e.g., an anamorphic video might have rectangular pixels).
{% endAside %}

> Of special interest in this list is ⏱ `mediaTime`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of special interest in this list is `mediaTime`.
```

In Chromium's implementation, we use the audio clock as the time source that backs `video.currentTime`,
whereas the `mediaTime` is directly populated by the `presentationTimestamp` of the frame.
The `mediaTime` is what you should use if you want to exactly identify frames in a reproducible way,
including to identify exactly which frames you missed.

> {%Aside 'warning' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
```

Reviewer: There's no aside type because, as [the handbook says](https://web.dev/handbook/web-dev-components/#note-asides), this is supplemental information. Warnings and cautions are reserved for things requiring action from the reader.

>   Unfortunately, the video element does not offer any guarantees in terms of frame accurate *seeking*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Unfortunately, the video element does not guarantee frame-accurate *seeking*.
```

  This has been an ongoing [subject of discussion](https://github.com/w3c/media-and-entertainment/issues/4).
  [WebCodecs](https://github.com/WICG/web-codecs) will eventually allow for frame accurate applications.
{% endAside %}

> ### If things seem one frame off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### If things seem one frame off&#8230;
```

Reviewer: It's periods of elipsis.

> Vertical sync (or just vsync), is a graphics technology that synchronizes the frame rate of a video and the refresh rate of a monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vertical synchronization (or just vsync), is a graphics technology that synchronizes the frame rate of a video and the refresh rate of a monitor.
```

> Since the rVFC API runs on the main thread, but, under the hood, video compositing happens on the compositor thread,
> everything from this API is a best effort, and we do not offer any strict guarantees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `requestVideoFrameCallback()` runs on the main thread, but, under the hood, video compositing happens on the compositor thread.
Everything from this API is a best effort, and we do not offer any strict guarantees.
```

What may be happening is that the API can be one vsync late relative to when a video frame is rendered.

> It takes one vsync for changes made to the web page through the API to appear on screen (same as `window.requestAnimationFrame()`),
> so if you keep updating the `mediaTime` or frame number on your web page and compare that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes one vsync for changes made to the web page through the API to appear on screen (same as `window.requestAnimationFrame()`).
So if you keep updating the `mediaTime` or frame number on your web page and compare that
```

against the numbered video frames, eventually the video will look like it is one frame ahead.

What is really happening is that the frame is ready at vsync&nbsp;x, the callback is fired and the frame is rendered at vsync&nbsp;x+1,
and changes made in the callback are rendered at vsync&nbsp;x+2.
You can check whether the callback is a vsync late (and the frame is already rendered on screen)
by checking whether the `metadata.expectedDisplayTime` is roughly `now` or one vsync in the future.

> If it is within about 5–10 microseconds of `now`, the frame is already rendered;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is within about five to ten microseconds of `now`, the frame is already rendered;
```

> if the `expectedDisplayTime` is ~16 milliseconds in the future (assuming your browser/screen is refreshing at 60Hz),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if the `expectedDisplayTime` is approximately sixteen milliseconds in the future (assuming your browser/screen is refreshing at 60Hz),
```
